My name is Tom Weier.
I'm the Network and
Communications Technology Manager in
Developer Relations.
And I have the privilege
of introducing Session 301,
Mac OS X Server Overview.
As many of you have heard
from the keynote yesterday and
some of the other sessions,
we've got a new X Server.
And to talk about that,
I'm going to invite up Eric Zelenkia,
Product Marketing Manager for
Mac OS X Server.
[Transcript missing]
So today we're going to be
discussing a little bit,
we're going to be updating
you on Mac OS X Server.
You'll hear a little bit more
about the details and the
features of Mac OS X Server.
We'll give you an update as
to the technologies that are
included in Mac OS X Server.
And we'll also discuss some developer
opportunities that are afforded
to you by developing products and
solutions for Mac OS X Server.
So specifically, we'll educate you on
what is Mac OS X Server,
how Mac OS X Server relates to Mac OS X.
Again, the developer opportunities
and then we'll point you to
some additional sessions,
some breakout sessions where you
can learn more about developing
for specific technologies.
So our server strategy
at Apple is simple.
Our goal is to deliver innovative,
scalable solutions that are built
upon internet and industry standards.
We want our server platform
to be the premier platform for
high performance networking,
whether that's workgroup or
internet server solutions.
Our servers should be very easy to use.
They should be easy to
manage and administer.
They should offer a
full range of services.
They should be able to integrate
easily into existing networks
and existing infrastructures.
And again, they should embrace and
support open standards.
So what is Mac OS X Server?
Avi introduced it yesterday
in his presentation.
But Mac OS X Server is really a
combination of a couple things.
Mac OS X Server builds upon
the innovation and the power
of Unix and everything that
we delivered with Mac OS X.
Mac OS X Server also includes a suite
of internet and networking services.
includes a lot of open source solutions
and includes a similar interface
to our Apple Share IP product.
So it's very easy to use,
very comfortable.
A teacher or work group administrator can
easily adopt Mac OS X Server and learn
it without a lot of technical knowledge.
So Mac OS X Server again,
it builds upon the industrial strength
server platform that we have in Mac OS X,
and Darwin,
and a lot of the open source solutions
that are out there on the network,
on the internet.
It integrates a lot of server
solutions for file and print,
we'll go into more of these later,
internet and web,
networking and security,
desktop management,
and directory services.
And again,
Mac OS X Server offers a superior
ease of use with its secure
remote administration interface.
So this is basically the
architecture of Mac OS X,
Mac OS X Server.
Mac OS X Server again
sits on top of Mac OS X.
It supports the
Directory services architecture.
And you can see that the services
that we provide are layered on
top of the Directory services.
So all of the services,
whether it's our file services
or networking services or
desktop management solutions,
all support Directory services.
And then on top of that,
we provide the nice, clean, easy to use,
elegant interface for
remote administration.
So how does Mac OS X Server differ
from Mac OS X?
Well, they're very similar in some ways.
They're both based upon the great
Darwin Operating System Foundation.
They both feature the reliable,
high-performance
BSD networking stack and tools.
And they both feature
the Aqua user interface.
They differ in that
Mac OS X Server is a server platform.
It's not the operating system.
Mac OS X is the operating system.
This is our server platform.
It builds upon Mac OS X.
Mac OS X Server also features
a full range of services for,
we discussed earlier,
like file sharing and
networking solutions.
We have integrated remote administration,
management, and logging.
So a server should produce reports.
It should allow you to
remotely administer it.
Mac OS X Server also features a series
of fault tolerance systems to recover
from failures if one of the services
crashes it will automatically restart it.
We have some hardware
integration there as well.
Mac OS X Server also builds upon
some additional open source solutions
which are not included in Mac OS X.
And also some Apple design solutions
like Macintosh Manager 2 and NetBoot 2.
And again,
Mac OS X Server is a complete solution.
Out of the box,
everything that you need to set up your
server to integrate your clients on your
network is provided in Mac OS X Server.
So now I'd like to invite up Greg Burns.
He's the director of
Internet Server Software.
And he'll go into more about
Mac OS X Server Platform and
the services it provides.
Greg?
Thanks Eric.
Let's talk more about Mac OS X Server and
some of the technologies that we
provide and that we've delivered
in Mac OS X Server with the new release.
Eric's provided a good
overview of Mac OS X Server,
but I want to talk in a bit more detail
about some of the things you should know.
And then towards the end of the
presentation in a few areas,
we're going to go into some more
depth in particular areas that you
as developers should know about
developing for Mac OS X Server.
[Transcript missing]
So in addition to all this
scalability and performance benefits,
another thing that's new with
Mac OS X Server with the new release
is that we can take full advantage
of symmetric multiprocessing.
This is something that,
unlike Apple Share IP in the past,
we're now fully able to take
advantage of the multiprocessor
hardware that we deliver in the
server product for great performance.
And as Eric mentioned, we've added fault
tolerance systems as well.
So we have a few things that
we've added to the server product.
One is a watchdog process that will look
over the services that are running and
make sure they continue to stay running.
And if one should quit unexpectedly,
it will start it up again and make
sure the services stay online.
Another is a combination of
hardware and software that basically
will monitor the overall system
and make sure that it's alive.
And if the system should hang
for some unexpected reason,
it will restart it.
So even if your server is located 20
miles away in a remote office and it
goes down in the middle of the night,
you don't have to worry because
it will continue to hang.
will automatically restart itself
and stay running and stay online.
So now let's go into some of the
services and the capabilities that
are provided in Mac OS X Server.
So key to Mac OS X Server is the
Directory Services layer that is used
by all the services in Mac OS X Server.
Okay, so Directory Services provides
basically an integrated set of services,
an API, and a back-end database that can
be used to share information about
users and resources on the network.
So client applications on the desktop
and server applications can use the
API to access directory information.
And in addition, we provide the back-end
database in the form of NetInfo,
a distributed replicated
directory server.
This is utilized by all the
services in Mac OS X Server.
So whether it's File, Web, Print, Mail,
all of them access the network
directory information and
access the shared accounts.
And in addition,
we realize that there are people that
have existing directory infrastructures.
Uh, primarily using LDAP that are going
to want to be able to integrate
Mac OS X Server into those environments.
So in the directory,
we've provided LDAP support
to allow Mac OS X Server to
integrate into these environments.
So if you have an iPlanet LDAP server
or a Windows Active Directory server,
you can take a Mac OS X Server and
basically deploy it in that environment.
And any service that you
have up and running will be,
have access to new user accounts
that are added into these
servers as soon as they're added.
So it's fully dynamic.
and fully integrated.
So, basically this picture shows
you how it's all put together.
In the green there in the middle
you have the API which is the
key piece that anybody writing an
application needs to be aware of.
That's available on both the
client and the server and that
allows you to access the directory.
So, you see the Apple software there,
our Mac OS X services that take
advantage of the directory through
this API as well as developer
software that can use it as well.
In order to access the
various directories,
you have the choice of going
through the existing directories
that we provide plug-ins for,
NetInfo and LDAP.
Or as a developer you can write your
own plug-in for an existing directory.
And other people as well,
IT organizations can do this as
well for proprietary directories.
So to summarize, the API is included with
every Mac OS X product,
desktop, and server.
Allows access to any directory.
The APIs provide a central
point to access network
resources in the directory,
and also to authenticate user
accounts to the directory.
It's extensible,
so new directory support can be
added via the plugin architecture.
And we've added NetInfo and LDAP support
included in the core server OS.
Okay,
looking at our menu of services here
that are provided in Mac OS X Server,
the first is file and print services.
And obviously these are very important
in the education and graphics markets,
very highly used in the LAN environment.
And in addition to all the reliability
things that we talked about that
we've improved in Mac OS X Server,
we've also focused a lot on performance.
So we have a truly high performance
solution here that we're delivering.
We've been doing benchmarks
against Windows 2000,
and we've found that this
is Mac OS X Server is truly
the fastest server for both
Mac OS and Windows clients.
And so we're really happy about that.
Another thing.
Thanks.
Another thing that's important is that we
need to be able to support all clients.
So we've added support for, obviously,
we had AFP and Windows support
in Apple Share IP.
We've added NFS as well with
Mac OS X Servers and Unix underpinnings.
And, of course, FTP.
So no matter what client
you're coming from,
you're fully able to access the server.
And, of course, with AFP,
we've enhanced that with AFP 3.0
to take full advantage of the
new Mac OS X file system layout.
So things like Unicode file names,
long file names, privileges have all been
enhanced in AFP 3.0.
In addition, all these file services can
use both HFS Plus and UFS.
So unlike a previous
release of Mac OS X Server,
you truly are independent of the
underlying file system storage.
And, finally, our Windows support.
It comes from Samba,
which I'm sure many of
you are familiar with.
And in addition to adding
Samba into the product itself,
we've made sure that it's really
well integrated with Mac OS X Server.
So in terms of integrating with
the Unicode file system layout of
Mac OS X and the directory APIs,
as well as the management utilities,
we've made sure that that
all fits together well and
provides a truly integrated and
easy-to-manage set of file services.
On the print side,
we support Windows and Mac printing,
and that integrates into the
Mac OS X printing environment
for PostScript printers.
And this picture kind of gives
you an idea of how all of this
fits together and makes it
really easy to set up and manage.
All of the configuration for shared
directories and privileges is
shared by all of the file services.
They all can access the underlying file
services whether it be UFS or HFS Plus.
And they all use the directory
services to access the account
information in our shared directory.
Moving on to Internet services
is obviously another key part
of server environment to be able
to do comprehensive web hosting
and Mac OS X Server provides
a great deal of support here.
In addition to the basic web services,
we also have a mail server product that
we provide as well as in Mac OS X Server.
We have media streaming with the
QuickTime streaming server and we
have an application server environment
with the WebObjects 5 deployment.
The Mail Server is a server
that has been brought over and
improved from Apple Share IP.
We've removed some of the
limitations that existed in the
Apple Share IP products such as improving
the ability of the database to scale,
increased the size limitations there.
We've continued to maintain some
of the key features though like
the high performance message
store and the fact that it's fully
integrated with the Directory.
The IMAP administration port makes it
easy to access the database locally
or remotely from IMAP through the
protocol or from any IMAP client.
One of the key things we wanted to
improve in the Mail Server for X is
to really make it more flexible.
The Mail Server is really easy to set up,
it's really easy to use,
it's fully integrated,
but with that integration came
some inability to modify it and
so we wanted to improve on that.
And so what we've done with X is
we've allowed you to use it the
way it exists with the integration.
We've allowed you to use
the integrated SMTP router,
but we've also allowed people to
set it up so that you can use a send
mail as your back end SMTP router.
And so that allows people that
really want to customize the
server or if developers want to
add additional capabilities on
top of the Mail Server platform,
they're able to do
that through send mail.
And so we've really increased
the flexibility in the
Mail Server with Mac OS X.
Another product on the internet side is
the QuickTime streaming services which
provides both support for live media
and on demand media of QuickTime being
streamed across the internet.
You can stream any hinted QuickTime media
placed on the server as well as stream
live events from a broadcast application
by reflecting them through the server.
In addition,
you can take servers that are
reflecting and basically build up
multiple chains of basically servers
reflecting the servers to build very
large distribution environments for
a really truly scalable architecture.
It's fully standards based on
RTP and RTSP so it's fully compatible
with other servers and clients.
And it's fully open source and it
runs on a variety of platforms and
we're now in our third release and
I'll talk about that in a minute.
And overall this product
has been really popular.
We've had over 135,000
downloads now of QuickTime.
We've had over 135,000 downloads
now of QuickTime streaming server
and a huge number of those have
been on Mac OS X Server itself.
[Transcript missing]
Of course, a core part of web services
is the web server itself
and all that goes around it.
And I'm sure many of you are familiar or
know that we include Apache as the core
web server foundation in Mac OS X Server.
And so we want to talk a bit more
in depth about what we've done with
Apache and some of the additional
facilities we provide around that.
So for that,
I'm going to bring up Rusty Tucker from
the X Server Engineering Group.
Hi, thanks.
We've got a really interesting story to
tell around Apache and Mac OS X Server.
I think it's really good news for
third party developers and there's
a lot of new opportunities there.
This could be a short story, I guess.
As a developer, when I first took a
look at Mac OS X Server,
it's really unique because you've
got the best graphic interface,
the ease of use that
Macintosh has always had,
and Unix under the hood.
And those combine to make this
a really unique web server
development environment.
So of course we started off
with Apache and it comes with
impressive qualifications.
Millions of sites served,
a very large and active
development community.
It's very stable and very secure.
And it's important to know that the
version of Apache that we ship on
Mac OS X Server is very standard.
But we've added to it some of the best
and most sought after tools from the
open source community including PHP,
MySQL, ModPearl, and Tomcat.
[Transcript missing]
Apache is typically really all
about being the most flexible web
server and it hasn't always been
known as the speediest web server.
And so we've tried to improve that
by adding speed to the flexibility
with the front end performance cache.
In addition,
we've added configuration for secure
sockets layer and configuring Apache to
be utilized as a caching proxy.
When we talk about
Mac OS X Server as a great web
application development platform,
what really stands out is WebObjects,
which is a consistent award
winner in a deep and rich
environment in its own right.
You'll be hearing a lot about that
in different sessions here this week
and also more in this presentation.
We've also included MySQL,
which is a multi-user structured
query language database.
Most interesting dynamic web
applications require an SQL backend and
now you've got one in Mac OS X Server.
PHP provides portable scripting
language for Apache and it's
highly integrated with MySQL.
Pearl is really great at
text manipulation and also
provides database access.
And Tomcat provides Java serverlets and
Java server pages so that you can use
the Java programming language to extend
Apache with greater performance and CGI.
More on the applications to
Mac OS X Server and the Web Server.
We've integrated Apple Technologies,
Sherlock for full text
searching of your website,
Directory Services so you
can take advantage of the
Directory Services architecture
and provide a great way to
authenticate and control access.
So you don't need to muck around with
HD access files or roll your own access
control using a database backend.
It's taken care of automatically and
integrated through Directory Services.
To ease the transition from Mac OS 9,
we've included legacy support
for Mac OS ACGIs including
those running under Classic.
Of course,
you want to move to a native technology
to take advantage of the performance
and reliability that X Server provides.
And we've also included a custom
Mac binary module that allows
for the transfer of classic files
that include a resource fork.
One area that Mac OS X has
broad support for is in the
web distributed and authoring
versioning protocol known as WebDAV.
You'll find it's a set of extensions
that allows HTTP to easily
manage the content of a website.
In OS X Server you can control the use
of WebDAV through the user interface.
And you'll also find
WebDAV client support in some
of the best authoring tools.
What's very surprising is that
you find WebDAV support built into
Mac OS X as a client file system API.
So websites can appear on your desktop
just like any other remote server volume,
which means that Finder, Cocoa Apps,
Carbon Apps,
and any command line application can
access and edit the contents of a website
just using standard file system APIs.
As we talked before,
Apache is a very popular web
server serving 17.9 million
sites by one recent count.
Apache has achieved this with
providing full support of HTTP,
reliability, flexibility,
as evidenced by the modules
and capabilities that we
include with Mac OS X Server.
We've worked closely with the kernel
team to optimize for Apache and the
result is really great performance on
100BaseT and Gigabit Ethernet networks.
We thought we could do even better and as
a result created the performance cache.
The performance cache is tightly
integrated with Apache so that
Apache is the responsibility for
filling the back end of the request.
It generates the HTML either from static
pages or through its modules or CGI's.
Where the performance cache takes
care of the front end of the
request and serves from memory
the results of that generation.
And the results are pretty astounding.
We've been able to more than
double Apache's performance on
Mac OS X Server in static page
performance while maintaining all
the flexibility and reliability
that's built into Apache.
Module and content developers can
also take advantage of this front-end
performance cache just by adding
expiration and cacheability headers to
the responses that you normally generate.
So if your module is already friendly
towards caching proxies on the internet,
it will already automatically
exploit the advantages of the
front-end performance cache.
So to summarize, the Mac OS X Server is a
deep and rich development
environment for web applications.
You can take advantage of the performance
cache for higher performance at
basically no cost in your development.
And it represents a lot of,
a number of developer opportunities
including the porting of
additional Apache modules to
Mac OS X or plug-ins for Mac OS 9.
Innovations that extend
Apache and exploit this unique
server operating system.
Development of web-based tools that ease
the management of Mac OS X Server itself.
And of course, killer web applications
built with WebObjects,
Perl, PHP, or Tomcat.
So,
I thank you and give you back to Greg.
[Transcript missing]
So that's it for web services.
Of course, another key feature of
Mac OS X Server and something that
really differentiates it from a lot
of the other Unix servers that some
of the core technology is derived from
is the administration capabilities.
Of course,
we have Mac OS X and Aqua itself
obviously provides a very
strong and easy to use platform.
And we have full Aqua UI for managing
all of the key services in Mac OS X.
So again, we have a very easy
to use server product.
The administration secure can be used.
You can manage it remotely or locally,
multiple services.
The key here is that you have all of
the key features of the services that
can be managed from this application.
And of course,
the services like Apache are
Apache under the hood.
So if someone needed to,
they could go under there and access the
Unix services themselves and configure
them themselves underneath the hood.
But again, you don't need to because all
of the administration takes
care of this whole thing.
So again, we have a very easy
to use server product.
The administration secure can be used.
You can manage it remotely
or locally multiple services.
The key here is that you have all of
the key features of the services that
can be managed from this application.
And of course,
the services like Apache are
Apache under the hood.
So if someone needed to,
they could go under there and access the
Unix services themselves and configure
them themselves underneath the hood.
But again, you don't need to because
all of the administration
takes care of this for you.
And you can easily do things like
setting up complex multi-hosted
websites in minutes with the
UI and the administration tools.
The last thing about some
of the core services in
Mac OS X is the network services.
If you're setting up a sophisticated
networking environment,
you may need to take on some
additional work for TCP like setting up
DNS servers or setting up DHCP servers.
And Mac OS X provides a set of networking
services that allow you to do this.
It's fully standards-based,
so all of the relevant standards, DHCP,
BootB, DNS, SLP,
are all supported by Mac OS X Server.
We have DHCP which provides support
for dynamic TCP address management
and can also be used to set up NetBoot
clients included in Mac OS X Server.
Mac OS X itself includes a
technology like Mac OS 9 did called
SLP that allows you to dynamically
register resources on the network.
It is TCP's equivalent of name
registration like NBP for those of
you that are familiar with AppleTalk.
And it really allows plug and play
of resources and services on the
TCP network like AppleTalk but without
all the chattiness of AppleTalk.
And the basic registration and
lookup is included in the clients.
But what Mac OS X Server adds is a more
sophisticated server and administration
capability that allows you to set up
scopes which are sort of like zones in
AppleTalk to really manage a network,
an SLP network for a
large number of clients.
And of course those of
you that want to do DNS,
there's a DNS server in there
as well and we'll be adding more
sophisticated UI to that in the future.
the Unix underpinnings as well.
We have the Unix networking stack
and the IP filtering that goes
with that for firewall protection.
So that sort of covers the core
foundation services in Mac OS X Server.
The next area, of course,
that's key to a lot of our customers
is the desktop management that
includes Macintosh Manager and Netboot.
And for that,
I'm going to bring up Rob Neville,
who's going to talk to you more about
desktop management in Mac OS X Server.
Hi, I'm here today to talk to you
about desktop management with
Mac OS X Server software.
Desktop management comes in basically
Two different flavors
with Mac OS X Server.
You have your basic
Mac Manager which is a server,
the server controls your client software
in a variety of different environments.
However, we also have Netboot and we're
releasing a Netboot 2.0 server
in this release which enhances
and increases the performance
and the capabilities of Netboot.
For Mac Manager,
basically what we wanted to do is
we have a certain set of goals.
We wanted to make a simple
administration experience.
We wanted to work in an integrated
environment with industry standards.
And we wanted to allow you to administer
the server for Mac OS X and Mac OS 9.
We wanted to make sure that as we
move Macintosh Manager forward that
we maintain compatibility with the
thousands of Mac Manager clients
that are out there.
And we wanted to make the experience
that Macintosh Manager users have
More integrated into the
Mac OS X Server environment so that what
we're doing is we're no longer using
a separate users and groups environment.
[Transcript missing]
What does that mean?
Well,
you have a single username and a single
password for all of your services.
The users use the same
Users and Groups database.
Because the Users and Groups database can
access Directory services and accesses
Directory services on Mac OS X Server,
that also means that you can store
your Users and Groups data not
necessarily on the Mac OS X Server.
They can be back-ended on an LDAP server
or an Active Directory server.
This is the place where your Macintosh
user will have his home directories.
And the experience will be very similar
to what you get under Mac OS X with
their user home directories.
Our admin for Macintosh
Manager is in Carbon.
That means that you can
run it on a Macintosh
The client support runs from
Macintosh operating system 8.1 to 9.x.
This version also
contains Kerberos support.
And the last item is we're planning to
do a technical article in the coming
weeks hopefully to discuss what you
would do to have your applications fit
inside a Macintosh Manager environment.
This is basically the
Macintosh Manager architecture.
Macintosh Manager server sits on the
same machine as your Apple Share server,
your Mac OS X Apple Share server,
which both sit on top
of Directory services,
as I discussed.
Your user profiles are stored
through Directory services.
Your users and groups database can be
stored locally on the Mac OS X Server or
they can be stored remotely since they're
accessed through Directory services.
And your clients sit out on
the network wherever they will
as does your administration.
Netboot.
We've made a few changes to Netboot.
We wanted to simplify the
workgroup administration.
We wanted to have multiple desktops
share the same server hosted boot image.
We wanted to be able to protect
that image from user modification.
And we wanted to make
desktop OS upgrades trivial.
We work currently with a standard
unmodified Mac OS 9 system.
and currently we work
with Mac OS 9 system only.
The boot performance that we've
experienced in this server is comparable,
believe it or not, to a local disk.
We have some improvements.
Some of these are in the product now.
We interoperate with
standard DHCP servers.
In a previous version,
you had to have a hard-coded IP address
for each individual Mac Netboot client.
With the current release of 2.0,
the client gets its IP address from DHCP.
This allows for you to be able
to add a new client dynamically
to your Netboot environment.
This also,
we've also added some scalability.
In the previous release you
could have one server per subnet.
In the current release you could
have multiple servers per subnet.
However, since there are two
different types of clients,
we have a 1.0 compatibility version
that's running in this current server.
You can only have one
1.0 server per subnet.
But if your clients are newer and you
can have multiple servers that offer
the 2.0 functionality per subnet,
you can also talk across routers.
So what do you need to,
how does this impact you other
than as users of the product?
Well you have to assume that the
Mac OS that you're going to be
talking to or that your users are
going to be using is not persistent.
And what does that mean?
Well that means that the
operating system is existing on
a hard drive and could go away.
Not on a hard drive, excuse me,
on the network and could go away.
So this is a brief graphic of the
way the server currently is working.
Basically what you have is you can
have your own existing network.
You can plug a Mac OS X Server any
place on that network on
either side of the router.
And your clients can get their
DHCP services from that server.
They can also NetBoot from
that particular server.
And we've built in some load balancing
so that if you have a certain number
of clients coming in talking to
Server A in this particular example,
and it's fairly busy serving pages,
it'll automatically route over
to Server B and/or Server C.
Next we're going to have
Greg Vaughan talk about
developing for Mac OS X Server.
Basically, I've been working doing
server development at
Apple for like over 12 years.
We've talked about a couple
developer opportunities here in
conjunction with our product.
What I'm going to focus on is
actually developing writing
reporting servers to complement the
ones we provide in Mac OS X Server.
It's a short presentation.
I'm just going to point out a couple
things to watch out for and some things
in X Server that you can use to take
advantage of and customize services.
So, porting Unix servers to X Server,
I mean basically it's Unix,
shouldn't be any more difficult to
port to than any other Unix platform.
There are a couple
things to watch out for.
Probably the biggest thing
is the fact that HFS is a
case-insensitive file system.
Definitely, Unix servers may or may not
rely on case sensitivity,
but it's something to really
watch out for because it can
cause really subtle bugs.
When we were reporting Apache over,
we had a problem with the security
stuff because the URLs you
enter in to restrict access,
Apache would match case sensitive.
And if the user used a different case,
Apache would say, "Oh, this is fine.
It's for something else." Then the
file system would find the file
you were trying to restrict.
So basically,
that was something we ran into late and
had to figure out a way to work around.
It's subtle bugs that you
really need to watch out for.
If you have a server that basically
you can't get to work any other way,
you can always run it on UFS and
get the case sensitivity,
but it's not as nice.
Another thing is in /etc files
like /etc/password or /etc/fstab,
generally you're not supposed to
really access those types of things.
You're not supposed to really
access those directly any way.
There are APIs to access them.
Definitely on 10,
those files are redirected
through the APIs to go to NetInfo
and other directory services.
So you should use the APIs.
If you're reporting a Unix server,
it's probably already talking
to standard Unix APIs.
For a server,
that's generally a good thing.
There are some APIs you can use on
10 that will help you add value.
Directory services is certainly one.
The directory services presentation
is right after this one,
so you might want to
stick around for that.
Core Foundation provides a
lot of different utilities
that can be very useful.
Things for dealing with Unicode or
parsing XML files and stuff like that.
And if you want to gain access
to the HFS+ information,
resource forks, type in creator.
Carbon file system stuff
is what you want to use.
You do have to be really
careful though on 10.
A lot of the APIs outside of the core
services require a logged in user.
And for a server,
generally you'd like your service
to be able to start at boot time
and not have somebody logged in.
So certainly want to separate
out any UI related things.
And you want to watch for
APIs that require a user to
be logged in on the server.
A couple of random little things.
Starting the server.
Most things in X Desktop are started
through bundles in startup items.
Basically it contains a script that
starts your server usually based
on a parameter in host config.
And then there's a P list
to determine start order.
You can add your stuff to
startup items to start a server.
On X Server we also provide
the watchdog process.
This is the thing that
provides reliability.
I'll talk more about that in a second.
Admin user versus root.
Basically servers often will
run as root and that's fine.
But when you actually log into the
machine physically the users are
going to log in as an administrator.
And Unix won't treat them as root.
So you do have to be aware of the
things that administrators can and
can't do and how they're going to
interact with the server running as root.
As far as file system layout,
if you've got a Unix server,
probably it's going to have files in the
normal Unix directories and that's fine.
You do need to be aware of,
if you have files that you
want the user to interact with,
log files or config files,
since the Unix directories
aren't visible from the finder,
unless you want the user to have
to go into the terminal and use VI,
you may want to either move them
or one of the things we do is
provide a SIM link in a place like
/library that points into the normal
Unix place for the file to live.
That way user can use, you know,
TextEdit and other GUI apps
to deal with those files.
Directory permissions, again,
because the administrator isn't
going to be logging in as root.
If he's going to write to a file,
you need to make sure it lives
in a place where the admin
users have write access to.
Other services,
the Watchdog service we've sort of
referred to in the other sessions.
It's the thing that provides the
reliability of restarting servers.
It's got a config file that you can add
your own service to that will start it
at boot time and if your service crashes
it'll get automatically restarted.
It also,
you don't really need to directly deal
with this but it also will work with
the hardware on the system so that
the whole servers for some reason,
you know, gets hosed.
It'll basically restart
the whole machine.
If you have 10 server installed,
it's got a man page that fully describes
it so you can just do man watchdog and
it'll say how to use the config file.
Servers basically,
if it uses crypt authentication,
you can continue to use that.
If you want to provide other
authentication methods,
again,
Directory services is the way we do that.
You can go to the presentation
after this and find it.
We use that with Samba to
provide NT style authentication.
And it's also extensible,
so you can provide other
authentication methods.
As far as development tools,
if you have a Unix app that
has scripts and make files,
it's usually easiest to
continue to use those.
You can use Project Builder
to edit your source code and
create a project for that.
If you're writing something from scratch,
I prefer using the GUI tools.
You can always use VI if you like.
If you're writing something that
specifically is for X Server versus
X Desktop and you want to check to make
sure you're running on a X Server system,
there is a file, basically,
serverversion.plist that only exists on
X Server in System Library Core Services.
You can just check for the
existence of that file.
One final thing is,
I want to make a plea.
If you're writing a normal desktop app,
the most important thing you're
usually testing for is functionality.
The server app,
most important thing is you want the
server to be able to run for like months.
And so you really need to watch out
for things like memory leaks that will
affect system performance over time.
There's a couple other sessions
you can go to in terms of debugging
tools and performance tools.
But you really want to pay attention to
that when you're debugging your apps.
Malloc Debug is an example of a
good tool to look for memory leaks.
And that's covered in other sessions.
So basically here's some other
sessions that you want to go to.
I don't obviously have time to
really go into detail on this and
it's well covered in other sessions.
First couple have already happened.
The Network Services location if
you want to provide browsability
for a server is very nice.
And the Performance Tools and
Debugging Tools are very good sessions.
I highly recommend.
And also the Directory Services one
right after this.
And Eric come back up.
Thank you, Greg.
So why develop for Mac OS X Server?
Well, Mac OS X Server is Apple's server
platform for the next generation.
Just like Apple is committed
to Mac OS X as the future
of our operating system,
Apple is committed to Mac OS X Server as
our future for our server platform.
We've designed Mac OS X Server to
specifically be a server.
It's not a desktop platform.
This is a server platform.
And by developing for Mac OS X Server,
you can take advantage of that.
You can take advantage of some
of the server-specific features
that we've provided like the fault
tolerance systems and the access
to some of the other services.
And by building for Mac OS X Server,
you can take full advantage of Unix
and the open source development
community and open source projects
as whether they're projects that
are out on the Internet today or
they're code that's Apple's code.
kicking back to those
open source projects.
So some key developer
opportunities for you.
Obviously, one of them,
which will be discussed more
in the session that follows,
is Directory services integration.
There's a lot of different
directory services,
plug-ins that could be developed
for integration with Kerberos,
Native Active Directory, Novell, NIS,
NIS+. There's server management
and administration opportunities
for you as a developer to build
web-based management systems or some
log analysis or reporting software.
Server monitoring, backup and restore.
So a lot of different
opportunities are available to you.
On the web side,
we discussed some of these earlier,
but you could build other
web interfaces and other
applications for the web services.
Whether it's taking advantage of the
patching module integration that we have,
web objects, Java servlets,
or even building a database
middleware solution.
On the hardware side,
there's RAID solutions that could
be developed or storage arrays,
power management systems.
And in the design and
publishing community,
there are professional high-end printing
solutions that could be developed
and deployed on Mac OS X Server.
So this is more of a roadmap for some
of the sessions that will follow.
Notice the Directory Services one
following here.
We will have a session on
QuickTime Streaming Server on Wednesday.
There's a Mac OS X Server feedback
session on Friday.
Network service location for
registering services on the network.
Security in Kerberos on Thursday.
And how to take advantage of
AFP 3.0 and the Apple Share client.
That's in Mac OS X on Thursday as well.
We've got some file system, open source,
BSE services, and of course, WebObjects.
So if you have any questions
about developing for Mac OS X or
taking advantage of some of
the networking services that
we provide in Mac OS X Server,
feel free to contact Tom Weier.
Hopefully all of you in this
room know him right now.
There's his email address.